# API's

## API Design Best Practices
[API Best Practices](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)

1. REST stands for Representational State Transfer
2. REST API's are designed around resourses
3. example of a identifier: https://adventure-works.com/orders/1
4. GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE.
5. URI's should be based on nouns
6. https://adventure-works.com/orders // Good
7. a chatty api is one with too big of a load on a server
8. GET methods
A successful GET method typically returns HTTP status code 200 (OK). If the resource cannot be found, the method should return 404 (Not Found).
9. A successful GET method typically returns HTTP status code 200 (OK). If the resource cannot be found, the method should return 404 (Not Found).
10. If a POST method creates a new resource, it returns HTTP status code 201 (Created). The URI of the new resource is included in the Location header of the response. The response body contains a representation of the resource.
If the method does some processing but does not create a new resource, the method can return HTTP status code 200 and include the result of the operation in the response body. Alternatively, if there is no result to return, the method can return HTTP status code 204 (No Content) with no response body.
11. If the client puts invalid data into the request, the server should return HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request). The response body can contain additional information about the error or a link to a URI that provides more details.




GET retrieves a representation of the resource at the specified URI. The body of the response message contains the details of the requested resource.
POST creates a new resource at the specified URI. The body of the request message provides the details of the new resource. Note that POST can also be used to trigger operations that don't actually create resources.
PUT either creates or replaces the resource at the specified URI. The body of the request message specifies the resource to be created or updated.
PATCH performs a partial update of a resource. The request body specifies the set of changes to apply to the resource.
DELETE removes the resource at the specified URI.
