# Graphs

### SOURCES
<!-- #### VIDEOS
[]()
[]()
[]() -->

#### ARTICLES
[graphs](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-35/resources/graphs.html)
[]()
[]()

## NOTES
### Vocab
- Vertex - A vertex, also called a “node”, is a data object that can have zero or more adjacent vertices.
- edge - An edge is a connection between two nodes.
- neighbor - The neighbors of a node are its adjacent nodes, i.e., are connected via an edge.
- degree - The degree of a vertex is the number of edges connected to that vertex.
- undirected graph - An undirected graph is a graph where each edge is undirected or bi-directional. This means that the undirected graph does not move in any direction.
- directed graph (Digraph) - A directed graph also called a Digraph is a graph where every edge is directed.
- Acyclic graph - An acyclic graph is a directed graph without cycles.
- cyclic graph - A Cyclic graph is a graph that has cycles.
- adjacency matrix - An adjacency matrix is represented through a 2-dimensional array. If there are n vertices, then we are looking at an n x n Boolean matrix
- adjacency list - An adjacency list is the most common way to represent graphs.
- weighted graph - A weighted graph is a graph with numbers assigned to its edges. These numbers are called weights.
- traversals - Traversals are categorized by their order of visiting the vertices within a graph. There are two categories of traversals: depth first and breadth first.
  breadth first traversal - A breadth first traversal of a graph is like a breadth first traversal of a tree.
  depth first traversal - A depth first traversal of a graph is like a depth first traversal of a tree.
- complete graph - A complete graph is when all nodes are connected to all other nodes.
- 
