# Serverless Functions

### SOURCES


#### ARTICLES
[What is Serverless Computing?](https://www.ibm.com/topics/serverless)
[]()
[]()

## NOTES

- What is Serverless?
  - Serverless is a way for developers to have code and functions in the backend ON THE CLOUD!
- Serverless allows devs to not have to worry about a lot of back end things like patches and updates. 
- It is also much cheaper. Instead of being "always on", serverless spins up and down as needed.
- Serverless still has servers, but its called serverless because its supposed to be the experience for the developer. 
- FROM THE SITE:
  - Serverless is more than just FaaS
Function-as-a-service, or FaaS, is a cloud computing service that enables developers to run code or containers in response to specific events or requests, without specifying or managing the infrastructure required to run to code.
FaaS is the compute model central to serverless, and the two terms are often used interchangeably. But serverless is much more than FaaS. Serverless is an entire stack of services that can respond to specific events or requests, and scale to zero when no longer in use—and for which provisioning, management and billing are handled by the cloud provider and invisible to developers. In addition to FaaS, these services include:
Serverless databases and storage: Databases (SQL and NoSQL) and storage (particularly object storage) are the foundation of the data layer. A serverless approach to these technologies involves transitioning away from provisioning “instances” with defined capacity, connection and query limits, and moving toward models that scale linearly with demand in both infrastructure and pricing.
Event streaming and messaging: Serverless architectures are well-suited for event-driven and stream-processing workloads most notably the open source Apache Kafka event streaming platform.
API gateways: API gateways act as proxies to web actions and provide HTTP method routing, client ID and secrets, rate limits, CORS, viewing API usage, viewing response logs, and API sharing policies.

- 